PAGE: 4
METHOD: ocr_fas_eng

۴ ‏صفحه‎ 135A (YVY ‏مهندسی کامپیوتر (کد‎
resources, protecting hardware, software, and data from improper use, loading programs
and functions into main storage as required, passing control from one job to another under
priority systems, providing error correction routines, maintaining a complete record of all
process activities, and communicating with the computer operator.

Operating systems have evolved over time, driven by hardware advancements and
application needs. Initially, computers were programmed directly with machine
instructions or assembly code, with no controls over system use. The first OS challenge
was to enable transitioning from one job to another without stopping the machine,
entering a new program, and restarting. The batch operating system concept provided a
solution by allowing operators to load several jobs at once, which the system then
executed sequentially, taking control between jobs to set up hardware and release control
to the next job.

16- The underlined word “improper” in paragraph 1 is closest in meaning to ..............seeee0e
1) potential 2) peripheral 3) consequent 4) inappropriate
17- Which of the following best describes the function of paragraph 2?
1) It explains a fact which in a way undermines the main argument of the previous
paragraph.
2) It elaborates on the potential of a computer system to pave the way for future
advancements.
3) It refers to the historical development of a computer system mentioned in paragraph 1.
4) It demonstrates the initial steps taken for the manufacturing of computer hardwares.
18- Which of the following techniques is used in the passage?
1) Cause and effect 2) Irony
3) Direct quotation 4) Statistics
19- The passage provides sufficient information to answer which of the following questions?
I. In which country was the first computer introduced?
II. What is the name of the most common error in computer systems?
III. What was among the first problems operating systems needed to solve?
1) Land II 2) ] and III
3) Only I 4) Only II
20- Which of the following best describes the overall tone of the passage?
1) Passionate 2) Objective
3) Humorous 4) Ambivalent
PASSAGE 3:
Named after mathematician and computer scientist John von Neumann, the Von
Neumann architecture features a single memory space for both data and instructions,
which are fetched and executed sequentially. This means that programs and data are
stored in the same memory, allowing for flexible and easy modification of programs. But
instructions are also fetched and executed one at a time, which creates a bottleneck where
the CPU cannot fetch instructions and data simultaneously. [1] This is known as the Von
Neumann bottleneck. To address this, modern CPUs employ techniques like caching and
pipelining to improve efficiency. Still, the Von Neumann architecture remains highly
relevant and influential in computer design. [2] Von Neumann’s architecture introduced
