PAGE: 3
METHOD: ocr_fas_eng

۳ ‏صفحه‎ 135A (YVY ‏مهندسی کامپیوتر (کد‎
PART C: Reading Comprehension

Directions: Read the following three passages and answer the questions by choosing

PASSAGE 1:
Based on exponentially increasing computing power and big data availability, artificial
intelligence (AI) has gained substantial traction in recent years. In 2016, AlphaGo, a deep
reinforcement learning algorithm developed by Google, was able to beat Lee Sedol,
arguably one of the most renowned players of the board game “Go”, which is considered
to be multiple times more complex than chess. With the introduction of ChatGPT, AI has
made its way to a broad common perception, raising promising expectations about
impactful AI use cases in business research and practice.

Although Al-related literature is rich, we currently lack a comprehensive
understanding of the use of AI algorithms. The absence of a concise AI definition and
taxonomy in business results in a dispersed knowledge base, which has two critical
implications. First, it currently seems challenging to assess the extent to which
management research has exploited the potential of AI algorithms. Second, an overview
of current trends as well as future potentials of applied AI remains vague.

11- The underlined word “substantial” in paragraph 1 is closest in meaning to ..............000+ +
1) minimal 2) new 3) original 4) significant
12- The underlined word “its” in paragraph 1 refers to ..................
1) AI 2) ChatGPT 3) introduction 4) way
13- According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true about the game known as “Go”?
1) It was first created by AlphaGo. 2) It was developed by Google.
3) Al is good at playing it. 4) It is simpler than chess.
14- All of the following words are mentioned in the passage EXCEPT ................0000-
1) circuit 2) dispersed 3) exponentially 4) reinforcement
15- According to the passage, which of the following is true?
1) It is difficult now to evaluate how much management research has employed the
potentials offered by AI algorithms.
2) Our understanding of the use of AI algorithms is currently limited, primarily
because of a lack of Al-related literature.
3) Current evaluations show that there are no optimistic prospects regarding the
application of AI in business research.
4) A comprehensive overview of present trends and future possibilities in applied AI is
currently made available.
PASSAGE 2:
The operating system (OS) operates and controls the various units of a computer,
managing how software uses hardware to ensure the computer functions as intended in a
systematic, reliable, and efficient manner. The kernel, the controlling part of the OS,
remains in the main storage permanently during the computer’s operation. Principal
functions of an OS include scheduling and loading programs, controlling hardware
